README.md, before:

# Rust Random Logo

> **Note**: This project was not created by a human. It was entirely generated by an AI assistant (anthropic:claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219) using the Cline tool.

A Rust implementation of the RandomLogos fractal generation library, based on the [Improving Fractal Pre-training](http://catalys1.github.io/fractal-pretraining/) approach. This project serves as an educational resource for learning Rust through a practical implementation of fractal generation algorithms.

## Overview

This library generates fractal-like images using Iterated Function Systems (IFS) with a sigma-factor approach. It is a port of the original [RandomLogos.jl](https://github.com/AtelierArith/RandomLogos.jl) Julia implementation, designed to showcase Rust's features and best practices.

## Features

- Generate beautiful fractal-like images using Iterated Function Systems
- Configure parameters via TOML configuration files
- High-performance implementation leveraging Rust's zero-cost abstractions
- Comprehensive error handling with custom error types
- Well-documented code with examples and tests

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust (latest stable version recommended)
- Cargo (comes with Rust)

### Installation

Clone the repository and build the project:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/rust-random-logo.git
cd rust-random-logo
cargo build --release
```

### Running the Examples

Generate a fractal using the provided example:

```bash
cargo run --example basic
```

Or use the command-line interface:

```bash
cargo run -- examples/config.toml output.png
```

## Usage

### As a Library

Add this to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
rust-random-logo = "0.1.0"
```

#### Basic Usage

```rust
use rust_random_logo::{Config, render_from_config};
use std::path::PathBuf;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    // Load configuration from a TOML file
    let config = Config::from_file("examples/config.toml")?;

    // Generate the image
    let image = render_from_config(&config)?;

    // Save the image
    let output_path = PathBuf::from("fractal.png");
    image.save(&output_path)?;

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Advanced Usage

For more control over the fractal generation process:

```rust
use rust_random_logo::{Config, SigmaFactorIFS, render, rand_sigma_factor_ifs};
use rand::SeedableRng;
use rand_xoshiro::Xoshiro256PlusPlus;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    // Create a random number generator with a seed
    let mut rng = Xoshiro256PlusPlus::seed_from_u64(42);

    // Create a random IFS
    let ifs = rand_sigma_factor_ifs(&mut rng);

    // Create a configuration
    let config = Config {
        height: 384,
        width: 384,
        npoints: 100_000,
        ifs_name: "SigmaFactorIFS".to_string(),
        ndims: 2,
        rng_name: "Xoshiro256PlusPlus".to_string(),
        seed: 42,
    };

    // Render the image
    let image = render(rng, &ifs, &config);

    // Save the image
    image.save("fractal_advanced.png")?;

    Ok(())
}
```

### Configuration

The library uses TOML configuration files to specify parameters for fractal generation:

```toml
# Image dimensions
height = 384
width = 384

# Number of points to generate
npoints = 100000

# IFS configuration
ifs_name = "SigmaFactorIFS"
ndims = 2

# Random number generator configuration
rng_name = "Xoshiro256PlusPlus"
seed = 42
```

## Learning Rust with This Project

This project demonstrates several Rust concepts and best practices:

1. **Type System**: Using Rust's strong type system with generics and traits
2. **Error Handling**: Proper error propagation with the `?` operator and custom error types
3. **Memory Safety**: Leveraging Rust's ownership system for safe and efficient memory management
4. **Performance Optimization**: Using efficient data structures and algorithms
5. **Testing**: Comprehensive unit and integration tests
6. **Documentation**: Well-documented code with examples

Key files to study:

- `src/core/types.rs`: Learn about Rust's type system and traits
- `src/core/ifs.rs`: Understand the implementation of the core algorithm
- `src/error.rs`: See how custom error types are implemented
- `src/core/renderer.rs`: Learn about image generation and processing
- `tests/integration_tests.rs`: Understand how to write effective tests

## Performance

The library is optimized for performance:

- Generating an IFS: ~237 ns
- Rendering a small image (100x100, 10,000 points): ~344 μs
- Rendering a medium image (384x384, 100,000 points): ~3.46 ms

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Original [RandomLogos.jl](https://github.com/AtelierArith/RandomLogos.jl) implementation
- [Improving Fractal Pre-training](http://catalys1.github.io/fractal-pretraining/) research
# rust-random-logo

Commit message:

Add GitHub Actions CI workflow and update README with CI badge

README.md, after:

# Rust Random Logo

[![Rust CI](https://github.com/AtelierArith/rust-random-logo/workflows/Rust%20CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AtelierArith/rust-random-logo/actions)

> **Note**: This project was not created by a human. It was entirely generated by an AI assistant (anthropic:claude-3-7-sonnet-20250219) using the Cline tool.

A Rust implementation of the RandomLogos fractal generation library, based on the [Improving Fractal Pre-training](http://catalys1.github.io/fractal-pretraining/) approach. This project serves as an educational resource for learning Rust through a practical implementation of fractal generation algorithms.

## Overview

This library generates fractal-like images using Iterated Function Systems (IFS) with a sigma-factor approach. It is a port of the original [RandomLogos.jl](https://github.com/AtelierArith/RandomLogos.jl) Julia implementation, designed to showcase Rust's features and best practices.

## Features

- Generate beautiful fractal-like images using Iterated Function Systems
- Configure parameters via TOML configuration files
- High-performance implementation leveraging Rust's zero-cost abstractions
- Comprehensive error handling with custom error types
- Well-documented code with examples and tests
- Continuous Integration with GitHub Actions

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Rust (latest stable version recommended)
- Cargo (comes with Rust)

### Installation

Clone the repository and build the project:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/AtelierArith/rust-random-logo.git
cd rust-random-logo
cargo build --release
```

### Running the Examples

Generate a fractal using the provided example:

```bash
cargo run --example basic
```

Or use the command-line interface:

```bash
cargo run -- examples/config.toml output.png
```

## Usage

### As a Library

Add this to your `Cargo.toml`:

```toml
[dependencies]
rust-random-logo = "0.1.0"
```

#### Basic Usage

```rust
use rust_random_logo::{Config, render_from_config};
use std::path::PathBuf;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    // Load configuration from a TOML file
    let config = Config::from_file("examples/config.toml")?;

    // Generate the image
    let image = render_from_config(&config)?;

    // Save the image
    let output_path = PathBuf::from("fractal.png");
    image.save(&output_path)?;

    Ok(())
}
```

#### Advanced Usage

For more control over the fractal generation process:

```rust
use rust_random_logo::{Config, SigmaFactorIFS, render, rand_sigma_factor_ifs};
use rand::SeedableRng;
use rand_xoshiro::Xoshiro256PlusPlus;

fn main() -> Result<(), Box<dyn std::error::Error>> {
    // Create a random number generator with a seed
    let mut rng = Xoshiro256PlusPlus::seed_from_u64(42);

    // Create a random IFS
    let ifs = rand_sigma_factor_ifs(&mut rng);

    // Create a configuration
    let config = Config {
        height: 384,
        width: 384,
        npoints: 100_000,
        ifs_name: "SigmaFactorIFS".to_string(),
        ndims: 2,
        rng_name: "Xoshiro256PlusPlus".to_string(),
        seed: 42,
    };

    // Render the image
    let image = render(rng, &ifs, &config);

    // Save the image
    image.save("fractal_advanced.png")?;

    Ok(())
}
```

### Configuration

The library uses TOML configuration files to specify parameters for fractal generation:

```toml
# Image dimensions
height = 384
width = 384

# Number of points to generate
npoints = 100000

# IFS configuration
ifs_name = "SigmaFactorIFS"
ndims = 2

# Random number generator configuration
rng_name = "Xoshiro256PlusPlus"
seed = 42
```

## Continuous Integration

This project uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration. The CI pipeline includes:

- Code formatting check with `rustfmt`
- Linting with `clippy`
- Building the project
- Running tests
- Running examples
- Generating code coverage reports

You can see the CI workflow configuration in `.github/workflows/rust.yml`.

## Learning Rust with This Project

This project demonstrates several Rust concepts and best practices:

1. **Type System**: Using Rust's strong type system with generics and traits
2. **Error Handling**: Proper error propagation with the `?` operator and custom error types
3. **Memory Safety**: Leveraging Rust's ownership system for safe and efficient memory management
4. **Performance Optimization**: Using efficient data structures and algorithms
5. **Testing**: Comprehensive unit and integration tests
6. **Documentation**: Well-documented code with examples
7. **CI/CD**: Continuous integration with GitHub Actions

Key files to study:

- `src/core/types.rs`: Learn about Rust's type system and traits
- `src/core/ifs.rs`: Understand the implementation of the core algorithm
- `src/error.rs`: See how custom error types are implemented
- `src/core/renderer.rs`: Learn about image generation and processing
- `tests/integration_tests.rs`: Understand how to write effective tests
- `.github/workflows/rust.yml`: Learn about CI/CD configuration

## Performance

The library is optimized for performance:

- Generating an IFS: ~237 ns
- Rendering a small image (100x100, 10,000 points): ~344 μs
- Rendering a medium image (384x384, 100,000 points): ~3.46 ms

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Acknowledgments

- Original [RandomLogos.jl](https://github.com/AtelierArith/RandomLogos.jl) implementation
- [Improving Fractal Pre-training](http://catalys1.github.io/fractal-pretraining/) research
